Okay.
So congratulations on reaching the end of another core section.
In this section, we focused once again on the composition API.
This section was mostly for practice, so I don't think we had that many new ideas, but it gave us
a better sense of how we can use composable functions to greatly simplify these set up methods we have
in a given component and thus separate the component from different pieces of logic or responsibility
within it.
To me, it doesn't even really matter if the composable function is reusable.
Simply moving that logic from even one component to a function that can be independently tested itself
gives advantages.
In the previous options API, our component logic was a lot more intrinsically connected to a component
with composable functions.
We now get the reactivity benefits of view, but we don't have to do it strictly tied to a component,
and that allows you to have a lot more flexible, separated, easily tested designs.
All right.
And hopefully this section helped to illuminate that.
So with that, let's quickly review everything we learned.
We saw that Vue includes helper functions for reacting to lifecycle hooks.
We used our mounted, which runs the function that we pass it when the component mounts, but there's
also additional functions we did not explore.
They work the exact same way you import them from the View Library and then you pass them a function
in the setup method that that basically tells you run this logic whenever something occurs.
So for example, there is a lifecycle look for whenever the component updates or whenever the component
announce.
And for example, a component update can happen many different times in a component's life, while an
unannounced will only happen once.
So the idea is these helper functions may run one time multiple times, etc., but the idea is the same.
We simply can react to certain moments of existence in a component and tell you what to do in those
moments.
All right.
As well as that, we also created a lot more composable helper functions, and we saw that a helper
functions don't even need to return a reactive value to be beneficial.
They can simply isolate a single responsibility like dispatching a given view action.
That way, that helper function can know about the action name.
It can know about it.
Talking to the store, using the use star function and calling the dispatch method while the component
simply says, I'm going to rely on this helper function and you take care of all of that specific complexity
or responsibility.
All right.
As far as testing, same ideas, stick with simple JavaScript objects when marking for composable functions
and your component tests.
If you need a real view reactive object we saw we did need that in some tests.
We saw that we could wrap a value in a simple wrap function call to get the real view reactive object
that is helpful.
Sometimes when we were testing interaction with our actual H2 multiple.
And finally, this is common sense and we've known this for many sections, but this is a very common
point of confusion and common errors.
Just remember in the setup method or whenever you're working with JavaScript such as running functions
that accept arguments that are other reactive objects, just remember when returning reactive computed
values or working with them, remember to access the value property.
Remember to think about what you're working with.
Are you working with a primitive value or are you working with a view reactive object that is storing
a value and keeping track of its changes?
All right.
Remember what you're working with sometimes.
Unfortunately, when it comes to the templates, Vue does a lot of that work behind the scenes where
it doesn't care, for example, whether you give a number or a reactive object storing a number, it'll
make it work in the template.
It's a lot more complex when when we're in the JavaScript because there are those differences in those
properties matter.
You can't abstract away the core nature of JavaScript from us.
There says, Remember what you're working with.
That's a common point of confusion either forgetting to access value or accessing value in something
that doesn't need it, etc..
All right.
So with that, we have completed our third section of the composition API.
And in the very next section we can move on to something very, very exciting, which is TypeScript.
So I'll see you there.